"Excuse me, teacher, but this is a question
from a student in the 'Moonlight' group during the
third summer painting competition. This student, who
wishes to remain anonymous,
wants your answer:
Should girls eat the forbidden fruit? She
says it's
very normal abroad, so
what about us? Well, the question is
whether this foreign perspective is appropriate in Vietnam, and
for whom it's appropriate. It's a
very debated issue. Before
this talk, when I opened
Facebook, I saw someone
on a forum discussing how things in
Vietnam follow a
sequence: getting to know each other, then falling in love, then marriage, then sex.
They argue that sex comes
first, then getting to know each other, and only then does
marriage come. That's why
many people support this approach, because
their viewpoint is that when two
bodies are involved..."  If they're incompatible and
don't inspire each other,
the rate of breakups is very high because
people go looking for someone else.
They also express their opinions,
and those opinions are supported by many people.
Because then they don't
see the importance of sex.
You're grown up now,
you can hear this, so you know how
important sex is in family life. We
have to prioritize it, we have to
discuss it, and then we
decide whether or
not to have sex first. If someone prioritizes
sex above all else, then if
one partner experiences health problems, the other partner
will immediately lose control
and go elsewhere, which will lead to unhappiness. Conversely, if we
prioritize feelings
and physical intimacy,
then when two people have
feelings for each other, they can...
Seeking to learn more about
sex can enrich
your life, but because you
prioritize love and affection, if one of you
experiences physical discomfort, the two of
you will have a moral capacity to
stay together
and care for each other. These are two benefits
of sex before marriage and
marriage before sex. Both involve getting to
know each other thoroughly, and then,
after that, we only need to
cultivate knowledge about sex to foster
mutual understanding.
This will make the relationship much more stable,
many times stronger. Because the younger generation is the
internet generation, there isn't a single
young person who doesn't seek out information about
sex; it's readily available and
learnable. However,
changing the mindset of one person
to empathize with another
requires a very long time
for them to understand and
adapt to each other.  That's a long story.
So, just be direct about current life
so we can consider it, because this is
your life, because we are in
Vietnamese society, and people haven't
completely escaped
Vietnamese concepts. When we've
lost something, we accept loving
this person, loving this person, loving that person, and
both accept that there's nothing left. The
woman will suffer more than the
man. That's why the woman asks if she
should eat the forbidden fruit first.
When the man discovers that
the woman is no longer a virgin, he
'll think, "This has
happened N times already, and with so many people, I
won't trust her anymore." That's where
we lose our advantage. Then,
the man will think, "Nowadays, people have
very few children. I don't know
how many abortions this woman has had, and
whether she still has the ability to have children."
That's what you have to endure
before marriage. Many people experience
something similar: if you love each other, you have to have sex.  If you only get
pregnant after the fact, you can
overlook that by going for a
check-up. They'll give you the results: your
ovaries are healthy, your uterus is healthy, and you have
good fertility. It's just a
check-up, nothing difficult,
so you can get through it.
However, I think it's
better to maintain that aspect of your relationship. When you're newly in love and getting to
know each other, no one dares to ask for a health check-up. They'll ask if you sing or do anything else because it's all about passion. But if we stay calm, we can build trust between us. When we live together, we know what kind of person this is, whether they're
healthy or not.
We have time to
choose. So, a woman who is
calm and knowledgeable about
this forbidden topic will have a
better marriage and fewer
obstacles in her life.
I've actually
witnessed two people of the same age where the
woman wanted to keep the man, and he gave
in.  In a relationship where the
man gets bored after
a few months,
he'll find someone
else more attractive and
leave. The woman will suffer,
unconditionally following him around, and will have a
very hard life. She'll compensate him
with money, working her hardest, sometimes even borrowing
money for him to spend. So,
when we lose someone, we lose a
lot of advantages. Therefore, I hope
you all cultivate good karma so that you
always meet good people, and even
if you do, the
risks will be lower. So, what's
important in life is whether you're blessed
or unlucky. Therefore, you should
study Buddhist teachings to understand what
thoughts bring blessings, what words bring blessings,
and what actions bring blessings. Blessings will
protect you in
this life and many lives to come.
Yes, thank you, teacher. I hope the
woman who just asked the question in Trang
Thanh's group has also learned some
very valuable lessons.  Here, you'll
understand
this better. Oh,
[music]